docs/core/pipeline.md, before:

# Processing Pipeline

`idphoto` runs a deterministic image pipeline:

1. Decode input bytes (JPEG/PNG/WebP)
2. Crop (face detection, heuristic portrait, or none)
3. Resize to target max dimension
4. Flatten alpha to white background
5. Convert to grayscale (optional)
6. Encode as WebP or JPEG

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A["Input bytes"] --> B["Decode"]
    B --> C{"Crop mode"}
    C -->|"face-detection"| D["Face crop"]
    C -->|"heuristic"| E["3:4 top-biased crop"]
    C -->|"none"| F["Keep original framing"]
    D --> G["Resize"]
    E --> G
    F --> G
    G --> H["Flatten alpha"]
    H --> I{"Grayscale?"}
    I -->|"yes"| J["Luma"]
    I -->|"no"| K["RGB"]
    J --> L["Encode WebP/JPEG"]
    K --> L
    L --> M["Compressed output"]
```

## Sizing Behavior

- `max_dimension` constrains the larger dimension after crop.
- For 3:4 crop paths, output commonly lands at `36x48` for `max_dimension=48`.
- For `CropMode::None`, original aspect ratio is preserved.

## Encoding Notes

- `OutputFormat::Webp` uses lossless encoding in the current implementation.
- `OutputFormat::Jpeg` honors `quality` in range `0.0..=1.0`.
- Grayscale mode writes single-channel payloads for smaller output.

## Face Bounds Mapping

When face detection is used, the resulting face box is remapped to output coordinates after crop+resize so downstream consumers can overlay it directly on the compressed image.

Commit message:

Use lossy WebP encoding and honor quality

docs/core/pipeline.md, after:

# Processing Pipeline

`idphoto` runs a deterministic image pipeline:

1. Decode input bytes (JPEG/PNG/WebP)
2. Crop (face detection, heuristic portrait, or none)
3. Resize to target max dimension
4. Flatten alpha to white background
5. Convert to grayscale (optional)
6. Encode as WebP or JPEG

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A["Input bytes"] --> B["Decode"]
    B --> C{"Crop mode"}
    C -->|"face-detection"| D["Face crop"]
    C -->|"heuristic"| E["3:4 top-biased crop"]
    C -->|"none"| F["Keep original framing"]
    D --> G["Resize"]
    E --> G
    F --> G
    G --> H["Flatten alpha"]
    H --> I{"Grayscale?"}
    I -->|"yes"| J["Luma"]
    I -->|"no"| K["RGB"]
    J --> L["Encode WebP/JPEG"]
    K --> L
    L --> M["Compressed output"]
```

## Sizing Behavior

- `max_dimension` constrains the larger dimension after crop.
- For 3:4 crop paths, output commonly lands at `36x48` for `max_dimension=48`.
- For `CropMode::None`, original aspect ratio is preserved.

## Encoding Notes

- `OutputFormat::Webp` uses lossy encoding and honors `quality` in range `0.0..=1.0`.
- `OutputFormat::Jpeg` honors `quality` in range `0.0..=1.0`.
- Grayscale mode writes single-channel payloads for smaller output.

## Face Bounds Mapping

When face detection is used, the resulting face box is remapped to output coordinates after crop+resize so downstream consumers can overlay it directly on the compressed image.
